Question 1

The main architecture of Unicode was created by three engineers from Apple and 
Xerox, and current members include major computer corporations, software producers,
database vendors, government ministries, research institutions, and interested 
individuals. The decisions currently being made for Unicode might better represent
the interests of those interested in software and computer science, and exclude 
the interests of those outside of those fields, which is much of the general public.

Question 2

There are a number of unicode scripts not included in the current encoding, as 
they are considered "archaic" or "obsolete". One example of this is Maya 
hieroglyphs. Although this is not a script that is used very often, those 
studying the language would find it difficult to digitize this script and study 
it with others.

Question 3

For

-Some believe that CJK language characters are visually similar enough to be 
encoded together
-Unification allowed for more efficient development of Unicode
-At the time, there was a 16 bit limit for Unicode characters, meaning that only 
32% of all characters were reserved for these unified ideographs.

Against

-Many believe that the three CJK languages should be encoded separately
-Limits the ability of CJK language users to access and utilize their chosen language; 
by having a unified glyph system, all languages face some sort of reduced accessibility
-Reduces characters with historic or regional significance (i.e. Japanese Kanji)
-Same characters could mean different things depending on the language; multiple 
meanings are attached to some characters


Discussion

Gianna

There were marked benefits to Han unification, mostly related to efficiency. At 
the time, saving space was an important factor when deciding to unify visually 
similar characters. Some exceptions were made for necessary characters, and 
perhaps more could be made now that space is less of a concern. Although relevant
 groups were involved in this decision, there are some, like those in historical 
 research or who may have trouble differentiating between character meanings in 
 these three languages, who were left out of this decision and are still 
 impacted today.

Jerry

Overall, while there are some unavoidable consequences to having a unified system 
of representing CJK language, after our discussion, I believe that the Han 
unification was a necessary evil to simplify languages that utilize similar 
characters in their writing, and accomplished its task to a reasonable level. The 
individuals who designed the unification were from regions that would be impacted 
by the unification, and as such, the unification considered the representation of 
stakeholders. With a set of characters that combine three languages, there will 
be reductions in accessibility for the languages represented, but weighing this 
against the pros of having such a system make Han unification more appealing to me.
